---
title: "Cs Ej4104"
date: 2020-12-20T21:22:17+02:00
featured_image: '/images/otter_unsplash.jpg'
draft: false
---
# About CS-EJ4104 (Introduction to DevOps)
Some reasons to choose Introduction to DevOps course:
Why DevOps? DevOps is collaboration between Development, Operations and other teams, trying to achieve business goals. The concept was started around 2009 and DevOps practice can give you great advantages. F.ex. Deploy 30 times more frequently and 200 times faster, with 60 % fewer disruptions and recover 168 times faster when failure is experienced. **Leading to more profitable companies & higher job satisfaction! Thus a virtuous cycle.** The course? It's a 2 op course intent on giving the students an introduction to DevOps through videos explaining the key concepts and a rehearsal project. Some of the key things taught include: CAMS (Culture, Automation, measurement and sharing), version control, automation, CI/CD (CD (Continuous delivery/deployment) pipelines, LEAN, a bit about Scrum mentioned in culture and continous learning. Personally I chose the course as the selection of DevOps courses is not terribly large, but the skills are very important for work life and _very much in demand_ atm. The opportunity to join on university courses, for free and from where I want/when I can, is a wonderful thing. It truly ables personal development, and it's great to have this opportunity. As someone who is already in worklife, this is a very nice nod towards us all in the same situation, seeking to improve on our time off. Or perhaps in between jobs. I had heard about DevOps and done small things around it before. But I wanted to proper introduction and overview, since I  haven't had any course related to the topic before and I believed that this would help in making the bigger picture clearer. And last, a little bit about this website. It was built for the Introduction to DevOps course from FiTech Aalto selection (CS-EJ4104) as a rehearsal. Some of the technologies include:   
  - Hugo static website generator
  - Github Pages
  - Markdown

You can find the [course here](https://mycourses.aalto.fi/course/view.php?id=27447).